so what's the difference then between an
embryonic stem cell and an adult stem
cell what embryonic stem cells are what
we call totipotent embryonic stem cells
have the capacity to generate all of the
tissues of the body
in contrast adult stem cells are what we
call multipotent these cells can
generate several tissues examples such
as Hamada kwatak stem cells are the body
that can generate blood cells of the
immune cell system such as B lymphocytes
and T lymphocytes macrophages or cells
of the hair of the hair follicle stem
cells these cells can generate not only
hair follicles but also epidermis and
sebaceous glands
they're also cells of the body stem
cells of the body that are called
unipotent stem cells and these cells
have the capacity to generate only one
type of tissue an example of that would
be the epidermal stem cell which as far
as we know is only capable of generating
epidermis or liver stem cells which as
far as we know are only capable of
generating hepatocyte so where do
embryonic stem cells of the body come
from well my laboratory studies the
mouse as do many of the researchers in
the stem cell field and in the early
developing embryo we call this a
blastocyst and already it's just only a
few days old the blastocyst
already has differentiated into two
different cell types one cell type you
see here in pink these cells are called
Teahupoo trophoblast cells these are
feeder cells that support an additional
group of cells called the inner cell
mass these that are cell mass cells are
the only cells of the trophoblast that
are able to give rise to the fetus these
trophoblast cells are in contrast cells
that are
porting the inner cell mass so the inner
cell mass in the blastocyst has the
capacity to develop into the fetus and
these trophoblast cells are support
cells they do not contribute to the
fetus so another remarkable capacity
about embryonic stem cells and about
early stages of embryo Genesis is that
all of this development can happen
outside the womb this can happen in a
tissue culture dish so cells from the
inner cell mass can be removed we can
take these cells and we can put them
into a tissue culture dish and now these
cells which become embryonic stem cells
can divide and replicate endlessly so
these cells continue to divide they
continue to generate more and more
embryonic stem cells in an infinite
supply of embryonic stem cells and then
we can appropriately adjust the tissue
culture conditions so that we can
regenerate blastocysts in a culture dish
so these embryonic stem cells are
capable to give rise to this structure
with an inner cell mass and with a
trophic trophectoderm and yet if we
culture our conditions slightly
differently these cells can just divide
and endlessly generate more embryonic
stem cells and then if we take this
blastocyst and we implant that into a
pregnant female mouse that blastocyst
will give rise to a whole Mouse and so
these are truly totipotent cells we can
divide them endlessly in a tissue
culture dish and if we culture them to
the blastocyst stage we can implant
those blastocysts into the mice and
generate more mice
so why is this important for
regenerative medicine well scientists
study Mouse so that we can learn more
about the biology of stem cells but this
technology has enormous implications for
regenerative medicine how well these
cells might be able to be used to
generate nerve cells and nerve cells if
we're able to generate them in culture
could be used to generate or treat
Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's
disease different types of
neurodegenerative diseases nerve cells
might also be useful in treating very
bad injuries spinal cord injuries from
football or automobile injuries that
could paralyze an individual if we're
able to take these embryonic stem cells
and specifically produce pancreatic
islet cells those pancreatic islet cells
might be useful for the treatment of
diabetes if we could take these
embryonic stem cells and be able to make
muscle cells or cardiac muscle cells we
might be able to use them for treatment
in muscular dystrophy patients or
alternatively in terms of degenerative
heart disorders these cells might also
be able to be used to generate immune
cells which could be used to generate or
treat immune to fish deficiency
disorders and finally as scientists we
might be able to use these stem cells to
be able to understand more about the
basis of cancers and that understanding
might lead to new and improved
treatments of cancers so for all of
these reasons that's why scientists are
so excited about the potential of
embryonic stem cells and we need to know
more about the basic biology of stem
cells in order to find out whether any
of these wonderful potentially wonderful
uses of stem cells might actually become
a reality
day